Construct | Symmetrical point    
{bmc toolb205.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



First click with
the left mouse button on the point whose symmetrical point you are searching
for.



Then you may
click on either a point or a line, depending on whether you want to construct a
point-symmetrical or an axis-symmetrical position for the newly produced point.



EUKLIDDynaGeo
then constructs the symmetrical point.






#$K+Construct | Midpoint     {bmc
toolb206.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



Click on the two
points whose midpoint you wish to find.

Or

Click on the line
segment whose midpoint you wish to find.



EUKLIDDynaGeo
then draws the appropriate midpoint.






#$K+Construct | Line segment between two points     {bmc toolb207.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



Click with the
left mouse button on the two end points of the line segment required. The line
will be drawn.



You may choose
already existing points as end points. If you click on an empty area, a new
point will be constructed. So a line segment will always have a start and an
end point.



See also:

          Line segment of fixed length cm_LCreate






#$K+Construct | Line segment of fixed length    {bmc toolb208.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



Upon choosing
this menu item a small window opens in which the length of the line segment (
in cms) may be typed.



Then, using the
mouse, click first on the start point of the line segment and next on a second
point to define its direction. If this direction point is moveable, it is
automatically dragged to the correct distance from the start point. If it is
not moveable however, a new end point is created at the correct distance.



See also:

          Line segment between two points cm_SCreate






#$K+ Construct | Ray       {bmc
toolb221.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



When you click
with the left mouse button on two points, the ray is created that starts at the
first point and runs through the second.



As always, you
can use existing points or create new ones by clicking on an empty spot of your
drawing.






#$K+Construct | Line through two points    
{bmc toolb211.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



When two points
are clicked on with the left mouse button, then a line is drawn through these
two points.



If you click on
an empty spot in the working area, a new point is produced there. So every line
produced by this command has always two visible carrier points.



See also:

          Draw a line cm_RCreate

          Line of determined angle cm_GRicht






#$K+Construct | Perpendicular bisector    
{bmc toolb214.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



Using the left
mouse button, click on a line segment or on two points. A perpendicular
bisector is drawn on the line segment between the two points.






#$K+Construct | Bisector     {bmc
toolb215.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



Click on the
three points forming the angle you wish to bisect.

Follow this
procedure:



 
(1)      Click on a point at the
first side of the angle.

 
(2)      Click on the vertex.

 
(3)      Click on a point at the
other side of the angle.



If the angle is
already marked with an angle arc (see Measure | Mark angle cm_MarkAngle), you can just click on
the arc, too.



EUKLIDDynaGeo
draws the bisector.






#$K+Construct | Parallel line    
{bmc toolb213.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



With the left
mouse button, first click on the point where you want the parallel line to be
drawn through, and then on the existing line or line segment that you wish the
line to become parallel with.



EUKLID DynaGeo draws
the parallel line.






#$K+Construct | Drop/Raise a perpendicular     {bmc toolb212.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



With the left
mouse button, first click on the point where the new perpendicular line should
pass through, and then click on the line from/to which the perpendicular line
is dropped/raised.



EUKLIDDynaGeo
draws the perpendicular line.






#$K+Construct | Line of determined angle    
{bmc toolb216.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



This menu item
allows you to draw a line which crosses a given line or a line segment (called
the reference line) at a given angle.

This is
accomplished in the following way:



 
(1)      First a small window is
opened where you type the size of the angle (in degrees).



 
(2)      Then click on an existing
point on the reference line which the new line is not to cross (to identify the
reference line).



 
(3)      Next click on an (also
already existing) point on the reference line which the new line must
cross (to identify the point).



 
(4)      If you typed a positive
number as the angle, EUKLID DynaGeo will wait for you to click on that half
plane with respect to the reference line where you want the angle line to run
through (to identify on which side of the line the angle should be drawn).



The construction
of such a line follows the same procedure as the construction of an angle from
three points:



 
(1)      a point of the first side
of the angle (here the reference line);

 
(2)      the vertex (here the
intersection between the reference line and the new line);

 
(3)      a point on the other side
of the angle (here a point on the 'angle' side of the reference line).



Instead of a
constant angle size you may type a formula or expressionTerm. In this case it is impossible
to define a third point for the orientation of the angle. The angle will be
oriented according to the sign of the current expression.



Hint:    The
reference line does not necessarily have to exist as an object, only two points
on the (perhaps imaginary) reference line must exist.

If the reference line does exist, but no useful
points are positioned on it, then these will be constructed by mouse clicks (2)
and (3). However, they are not yet snapped to the line. You have to do this
yourself. Otherwise there is a risk that the points 'are released' next time
you move the reference line.





See also:

          Line through two points cm_GCreate

          Draw a line cm_RCreate








#$K+Construct | Circle from centre and peripheral point     {bmc toolb218.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



With the left
mouse button, first click to mark the centre of the circle and then on a point
to define its periphery. The points do not have to exist already.



The circles so
produced will always have a visible centre point and a visible point on the
periphery.



See also:

          Draw circle cm_FCreate

          Circle with determined radius cm_MCreate






#$K+Construct | Circle with determined radius     {bmc toolb219.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



Upon selecting
this menu item, a small window is opened. There you enter the radius of the
circle. Its value may be a constant or an expressionTerm. Then you click on the screen to
mark the centre of the circle.



See also:

          Circle from centre and peripheral
point cm_KCreate

          Draw circle cm_FCreate






#$K+Construct | Arc       {bmc
toolb222.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



An arc is
determined by 3 points:



 
(1)      the starting point of the
arc,

 
(2)      the midpoint of the circle
containing the arc and

 
(3)      a third point to state
where the arc should end: it will run until it reaches the ray that starts in
the midpoint and runs through this third point.



Arcs are always
drawn with mathematically positive orientation.





Attention !

You cannot mirror an arc at a line just by mirroring
the 3 defining points and then create the appropriate arc depending on the
mirrored points. This will lead to wrong results due to the fact that mirroring
at a line reverses the orientation. You better use the Mirror object cm_MirrorObj command.






#$K+Construct | Mirror object      
{bmc toolb114.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



With this command
you can mirror any object of your drawing at a line or a point.
It is even possible to mirror complete polygons.



Just click on the
object to mirror and then on the mirror line or the mirror central point
respectively. Then the mirror image is created and shown in your drawing.






#$K+Measure menu



This menu includes instructions for measuring the distance of points and
lines and the size of angles as well as calculation of formula or expressionsTerm. Additionally, the menu includes
instructions affecting the co-ordinate system and manipulating points with
fixed co-ordinates.

Most of the
commands of this menu can be activated from the menu bar Measure&amp;Calculate cm_Meas_Calc.



          Measure distance cm_MeasureDist

          Measure angle width cm_MeasureAngle

          Define formula cm_TermInput



          Mark angle cm_MarkAngle

          Fix point cm_FixPt

          Clip point to grid cm_Clip2Grid

          Undo fix of point cm_UnfixPt



          Co-ordinate system cm_CoordSys






#$K+Measure | Measure distance    
{bmc toolb405.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



With the left
mouse button, click on the two objects between which you want to measure the
distance. You can choose any combination of points, lines and circles, and the
objects may be selected in any order.



If the distance
between the selected objects is positive, a so-called line of distance is
constructed. Its length is shown in a small frame. For two intersecting lines
and/or circles no line of distance is constructed. Their distance is assumed to
be zero.



You may dragVerziehen the display frame with the
mouse.



Important!

            If
you want to measure the distance between a line segment and another
object, internally EUKLID DynaGeo uses the line including the line
segment. It is thereby easier to e.g. measure the perpendicular in all
triangles. For all combinations of points, lines and circles a correct
topological concept of distance is used: The distance between two sets of
points is the shortest of all distances between points of one set to points of
the other set.





A hint for
profs...pt2






#

If you select the
instruction Measure distance via the toolbar and click on the
corresponding icon while pressing down the Ctrl key, only one input
object - a line segment - is expected. This procedure considerably simplifies
measuring the length of line segments.






#$K+Measure | Measure angle width    
{bmc toolb406.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



Click on an
angle’s arc. Then the size of the angle stated in degrees is displayed in a
small frame. The angle’s size is never negative.



If you have not
yet marked the angle you want to measure, and thus no arc is displayed, then
you may identify the angle by 3 defining points in the following order:



(1)
Select a
point on the first side of the angle

(2)
Select the
vertex of the angle

(3)
Select a
point on the other side of the angle



The angle is then
marked and measured.



You may dragVerziehen the angle size display with
the mouse (if in drag mode).






#$K+Measure | Define formula     {bmc
toolb407.bmp}



This command
gives access to a window where you may enter up to two mathematical formulas
or expressionsTerm.



In addition to
the usual mathematical standard functions and constants you can also use variables
in your expressions to represent distances and angle sizes. Before you use such
a variable in your formula you’d better create the appropriate measurement
object in your drawing (see Measure distance cm_MeasureDist  and
Measure angles cm_MeasureAngle).
Then you can easily enter the variable into the opened formula window: when you
click on the measurement object a corresponding measure name is
automatically inserted into your expression:



·
Distances
are noted ’d(x;y)’ where x and y are the names of the objects the
distance is measured between.
Example: If in a triangle ABC the side c is the line segment [AB], then
‘d(A;B)’ denotes the length of the side c. Accordingly ‘d(C;c)’ means the
distance between the point C and the side c (or more precisely: the distance
between C and the line containing the line segment [AB] ).



·
Angle sizes
are denoted ‘w(x;y;z)’ where x, y and z are the 3 defining points of
this angle.
Example: If a is the angle with vertex B whose first side runs
through the point A and the second one through C, then ‘w(A;B;C)’ is the size
of a measured in degrees.





Close the window
by clicking Ok when you have finished typing the expression(s). A small
result window appears in the upper right corner of the EUKLID DynaGeo window,
displaying the current value of the expression. You may close this window if it
is no longer needed. It will be closed automatically as soon as you delete any of the measured objects
used in the expressions.






#$K+Measure | Mark angle

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



Click with the
(left) mouse on three points that define the angle. Follow the procedure:



 
(1)      Point on first side

  (2)      Vertex
point

  (3)      Point
on other side



Then an arc is
drawn to mark the angle.



See also:

          More about angle arcs cm_Angle






#$KMore about angle arcs



You may change
the size of the angle arc by draggingVerziehen it (with the mouse in drag mode).



A 90º angle is
displayed with a right angle symbol. Miscelleaneous | Options cm_options offers a possibility to
adjust the size of the interval around 90º where an angle is accepted as a
right angle as well as two different ways to mark a right angle.



In the same
dialogue box you may define if EUKLID DynaGeo shall pay attention to the orientation
of angles.



If Yes, then all
angles are considered mathematically positive, meaning oriented clockwise. In
this way also angles greater than 180º can be marked.



If No, the
orientation is always chosen so that the marked angle is less than 180º.





Note

         EUKLID DynaGeo considers angle arcs as  non-objects. E.g. they are never
‘parents’ to other objects. Like names, measures and textboxes they only serve
as illustrations.






#$K+Measure | Co-ordinate system    
{bmc toolb401.bmp}



This command
opens a dialogue box allowing you to select how to display the co-ordinate
system.



·
First you
may choose if the co-ordinate system shall be visible or not.

·
If you
choose a visible co-ordinate system, you may choose if in addition to the axes and origin also a grid shall be displayed or
not.

·      If you choose grid marks, not all grid
points have to be marked. You may define the distance between marked grid point
to be 1, 2 or 5 cm.

·      Finally you can select if the axes will be
lettered.



Please note:

            The
more objects on the screen the more time is spent on drawing them. This effect
is especially felt during the draggingVerziehen of drawings.






#$K+Measure | Fix a point     {bmc
toolb402.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



This instruction
enables you to fix a basis point to a point in the co-ordinate system. This
turns the basis point into a so called co-ordinate point, i.e. to a point with
fixed co-ordinates.






#$K+Measure | Clip point to grid    
{bmc toolb403.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



This instruction
snaps a basis point or a co-ordinate point to the nearest grid point.



Applying the
instruction to a basis point automatically turns the point into a co-ordinate
point.






#$K+Measure | Undo fix of point    
{bmc toolb404.bmp}

(automatically
repeatableAutoRepeat)



This instruction
cancels the fix of a co-ordinate point, and the point is transformed into a
basis point (a point without fixed co-ordinates) which you can drag around
freely.






#$K+Macro Menu



This menu hosts
the handling of macros. You may create, save, load and of course apply macros.
If you create a new macro or open a macro from a macro file, a new line is
added to the macro menu, displaying the name of the macro. Click on this line
to apply the macro.



          Create new macro cm_DefMakro

          Edit macro description cm_EditHlpMakro

          Remove macro cm_DelMakro

          Load macro cm_LoadMakro

          Save macro cm_SaveMakro



          Run macro cm_RunMakro

          More about macrosMakro_Details






#$K+Macro | Create new macro



Before creating a
new macro you have to carry out the complete construction that later should be
constructed by this macro. Then the macro is created in three steps:



(i)      Upon
selecting the ‘create new macro’ command, a small window is opened in the
working area. The only button of this window is Ok, done!  Now you must click on the start objects
of the macro. If a start object required is hidden behind the Ok, done!
window, you can move this window to a different position on the screen by
clicking on its header and then draggingVerziehen it.

If the selection of a start object is not unique, a window is opened
displaying the possible relevant objects. Select the object from the list.

Click the Ok, done!  button after
selecting (with the mouse) all the start objects you need for the macro.



(ii)     After
you have selected all your start objects the title bar of the Ok, done!
button window changes: you are now requested to select the target objects
for the macro in the same way you selected the start objects. Click on the Ok,
done! button to finish this selection process, too.

If you select a target object which cannot be derived from the start objects,
an error message appears on the screen, and the creation of the macro is
canceled.



(iii)     Finally
a bigger dialogue box is opened, in which the name of the macro and a help
text may be typed. This name is the menu item that will be appended to
the macro menu after the macro is correctly built. The corresponding help text
is displayed at any time you ask for help about this macro. This can be done by
clicking the F1 key while running the macro.

The available key commands to format the help text are explained via the menu Keyboard
and mouse | Special keys cm_HotKeys.



After you have
completed the three steps, the macro is completed and added as a new entry in
the macro menu.






#$K+Macro | Edit macro description



This instruction
enables you to edit the name and the help text of a macro. However, this only
applies to macros which are presently loaded. If more than one macro is loaded,
a list is displayed from which you may select the macro you want to edit.






#$K+

Macro
| Remove macro



If more than one
macro is loaded a list is displayed with the names of the macros. Click on the
macro you wish to remove, and the macro is deleted from the macro menu and from
RAM.



Important:            If
a corresponding macro file exists, this file is not deleted by
this command. If you wish to delete a macro file you can use the WINDOWS' file
explorer. Macro files carry the extension *.MAK.






#$K+Macro | Load macro…



A file window
displays the existing macro files (*.MAK). Select the one you need, and
click the Ok button. This loads the macro and adds its name to the macro
menu.






#$K+Macro | Save macro…



If multiple macros
are currently available they are displayed in a list. Click on the macro you
want to save. This opens a window on the screen. Type the file name of the
macro file, and choose the directory in which you want to save the macro. When
you confirm, the macro file is saved to the selected directory.



Macro file names
should always carry the extension  *.MAK.






#$K+Macro | Run macro



All currently
loaded macros are displayed in the macro menu. Select a macro, and click on the
relevant start object(s). The status bar at the bottom of the EUKLIDDynaGeo
window always shows the type of the expected start object.



After the last
start object has been given, the construction steps stored in the macro are
carried out and the corresponding objects will be displayed on screen.






#$K+More about macros



Upon requests
from EUKLID DynaGeo users, an automatic procedure has been built into the
program, where if a line segment is start object, you also have the end
points of this line segment for use within the macro. Sometimes this
practical extension turns out to be annoying because the user loses control of
the orientation of the start line segment while running the macro. It is
thus a good idea to use the end points instead of the line segment as start
objects whenever the orientation is important. Correspondingly with every
circle entered as start object, its midpoint is made available to the macro,
too. The same is true for the vertices of a polygon used as start object.



All geometrical
objects used during the construction process, are also valid in macros.
However, notice that any target object must be produceable from the stated
start objects. This is very important to bear in mind when applying  e.g. circles of determined radii or lines of
determined angles: a formula or expression containing distances
or angle widths may depend on another object, which may have been forgotten to
choose as start object.



Consider
carefully  every step when programming a macro.  Even so it may very well happen that objects
drawn by the macro look different from what you expected. In these cases you
should test if the conditions during running the macro correspond to the
conditions while recording it.



Be conscious when
programming a macro, of the relative orientation of start and target
objects. If more start objects of the same kind should be typed one after
another, it is a good idea to explain to the user - in the help text -
how the order of start objects influences the position of the target objects.






#$K+Miscelleaneous menu



This menu
contains all the items that do not really fit into any of the other menu
headlines.



          Replay cm_ShowGrowth

          Show construction text cm_ConstrText

          Add text box cm_Comment



          Options cm_options






#$K+Miscelleaneous | Replay



This menu item
allows the course of the construction of the actual drawing to be
replayed like a film.



First the EUKLID
DynaGeo window is erased, and only the first object displayed. Every click
with the left mouse button (or press of the ENTER key) inserts a further
object, and the status displays a short description. Valid objects
that have been hidden are shown in grey for the duration of the replay. If the
drawing contains objects that have become invalid, then these will be bypassed.



As with every
other command, the replay can be canceled with the ESC-key. The normal complete
drawing is displayed again.






#$K+Miscelleaneous | Show construction text.



This command
displays a window in which a construction description of the present
drawing is listed. One line of text is given for every object constructed.
(This is the same text which is also displayed as an object description during
Replay). The description of hidden objects is shown in simple round brackets.
If the object is invalid then the description is between double complex
brackets.



The window size
and position can be changed. Though the text cannot be edited, it can be
marked and then with CTRL-INSERT copied into the clipboard. From there
it can be transferred to a word processor for further work.



To continue
working on the drawing, the construction text window must be closed.






#$K+Miscelleaneous | Add textbox



This command
displays an editor window in which any desired text may be put. When the window
is closed with Okay, then the text is displayed in your drawing in a
rectangular area but without a frame. It may be draggedVerziehen with the mouse, and so
placed at another location.



The size
of the textbox is defined during the editing phase. The box is as wide as the
editor window from which it receives its text, and high enough to contain the
entire text.



The textbox can
also be worked on. A double click with the left mouse button in the text
displays the editor window again, where the text can be changed or a new width
set.



Note:

         Textboxes
can considerably reduce the program performance in drag mode. Therefore use
them with care and only sparingly. (A textbox can theoretically hold up to
10000 characters, but you’d better not try this!) You may however hide
textboxes like normal EUKLID DynaGeo objects, and only make them visible when
required.






#$K+Options | Menu configuration



This page of the
options window allows to choose among various menu configurationsopt_menu. Select the configuration
that suits your needs from the drop-down menu and close the window with Okay.
All commands marked as not available in the chosen menu configuration will be
deactivated in the menues of the program.



Note:

The prepared menu configurations are supplied in two
versions, whereby one contains the addition &quot;locked&quot; in its
name. In this &quot;locked&quot; version the menu command  Miscelleaneous / Options  is de-activated too. It is thus not
possible to switch to another configuration once it has been chosen, as the
required command is no longer available. When in doubt, select the appropriate
unlocked configuration.



If the
configurations provided are not sufficient, then you may produce your own
additional ones. The button New...opt_newcfg leads to a window where you can define your
personal menu configuration(s).



The button
Edit  allows you to make changes to
the actually selected menu configuration if this is one of your ‘private
configs’ If one of the five predefined menu configurations is actually selected
this button is disabled.



The button Delete
deletes the last item from the list displayed in the drop down menu
provided that it doesn’t point to one of the five predefined configurations.



See also: 

          Create private menu configurationsopt_newcfg

          Notes about startparametersStartParams






#$K+Create private menu configurations



To define your
own menu configuration you should first of all give it a definite name.
Then you can edit the command list by marking all those commands that
should not be available in your menu configuration. The command list
only holds the commands that seem suitable for being disabled.



When you leave
this dialogue clicking on the Save button, your data will be written to
the file EUKLID DynaGeo.INI.



Please consider
that deactivating the menu item  Miscelleaneous
| Options  leads to a situation that
cannot be undone easily: you cannot change the menu configuration any more if
you disable the corresponding menu item. So be careful if you work with these locked
configurations!



If you loaded a
locked menu configuration by mistake, read the Notes about start parametersStartParams to learn how to get back
the full menu command set again.






#$K+Miscelleaneous | Options



This serves to
change the options that influence the object display. Wherever meaningful, a
range of valid values is given in the following description, in the format

            [ Minimum.....(Standard
value).....Maximum ]



Due to the
reasonable number of options they are distributed over several pages of
a tabbed notebook:



Start upopt_start

Presentationopt_darst

Measurementsopt_meas


Internalsopt_intern

Menu configuration cm_ConfigMenues

Construction textopt_kons


Exportopt_export



Below these pages
there are two buttons:



a Cancel button to leave the window and
reject the changes;

an Apply these settings button
to set all options to the new values.



At the upper edge
of the window there is a local menu allowing to load and save the
settings:



Options data menuopt_konfdat






#$K+Options | Options data menu



The local menu in
the  Options  window contains three items:



Load standard
settings

This command will reset all options to their initial
values.



Load user
settings

This command recalls the user defined settings that
were saved last. If you changed to your settings temporarily without saving
them, you can undo the changes with this command.



Save user
settings

This command lets you save your actual settings.



Normally, you
will rarely need this menu because EUKLID DynaGeo saves your settings
automatically at program exit and loads them again at the next start up.






#$K+Options | Start up



Starting
EUKLID DynaGeo:

Here you can choose the size of the EUKLIDDynaGeo
window at start up.



Starting a new
drawing:

Here you choose if a new EUKLID DynaGeo drawing
should show a co-ordinate system, and how it should look.






#+$KOptions | Presentation



Point size:

This parameter controls the size of a point on the
screen. The value is the radius of a circular displayed point in pixels.

Range:   [ 2
........ (5) ........ 10 ]



Minimum
distance of trace points:

When a trace is produced, a new point can only be
joined to the line when it is sufficiently far away from the last registered
point. This minimum distance may be defined here (in pixels).

Range:   [ 1
........ (5) ........20 ]



Plot new
traces as smooth curves:

If this check box is set, any new trace will be drawn
as a smooth curve through the recorded locus points. If not, then all of the
locus points are shown.



Name colour
follows object colour:

If this checkbox is checked, the colour of any
object’s name will always be the same as the colour of the object itself. If
not, the two colours are independent of one another.






#+$KOptions | Measurements



Distance unit
string:

Angle unit
string:

Here you can edit the unit strings used in
measurement objects.



Initial radius
of angle arcs:

This is the initialisation value for the radius of
the arc that is used to mark an angle.

(Also see Mark angle cm_MarkAngle)

Range:   [ 5
........ (30) ..........50 ]



Care for angle
orientation:

This switch defines if EUKLID DynaGeo should pay
attention to the orientation (&lt;180 or &gt;180) of any angles input. See also
Mark angle cm_MarkAngle



Mark right
angles with a point:

Checking this box will cause right angles to be
marked by a point inside their angle arc. Otherwise right angles are marked
with a hook instead of the angle arc.



Frame
measurement objects:

This check box decides if measurement objects appear
with or without a frame. (This is a pure matter of your personal taste...)








#+$KOptions | Internals



Mouse capture
area:

This parameter controls how close the mouse pointer
must be to a geometrical point before it is captured. The capture distance is
measured in pixels.

Range:   [
1........ (5) ......... 10 ]



Zoom factor:

This is the &quot;stretching&quot; factor by which
the picture is expanded when the menu command Edit | Enlarge drawing cm_ZoomDn is applied.

Range:  . [ 1
...... (1.5) ....... 10 ]



Tolerance for
angle comparison:

An angle w1 
is taken as being the same as another angle w2  when w1  lies within the interval [w2-dw, w2+dw].
Here, the dw value in degrees can be set.

Range:   [ 10-5........(0.5)........10
]



Tolerance for
distance comparison:

A distance d1 
is taken as being the same as another distance d2  when d1  lies within the interval [d2-dd, d2+dd].
Here, the dd value in degrees can be set.
Range: [ 1*10-20.......(1*10-8).......10 ]



Clip lines
internally:

With some few graphic cards, the WINDOWS drivers are
so buggy that EUKLID DynaGeo even fails to correctly draw straight lines on the
screen. Especially when the line crosses through the window’s client area with
its start and end points lying outside the window, some drivers do not show the
line at all. To avoid this problem, EUKLID DynaGeo can do the clipping of lines
itself, thus assuring the start and end point of any line to lie inside the
actual window.



Look for smooth paths:

When you drag a drawing there may be two different
possible positions for a depending point. Normally EUKLID DynaGeo chooses the
new position of a point in this way that the length of the point’s path
becomes as small as possible. But sometimes the choice is not quite easy to
decide because both of the new positions lie rather closed to the old one. In
these cases you can make EUKLID DynaGeo take into account the respective change
of direction of the two possible paths: the one with the smaller change of
direction will be preferred. So EUKLID DynaGeo will drive points on the most
smooth paths possible.








#$+KOptions | Construction text



No names and
measures in construction texts

If you check this box the construction text will only
show the true geometrical objects of your drawing, but no name objects or
measurement objects. Leaving this box unchecked will lead to a complete list of
all objects created.








#$K+Options | Export



Simulate line
style when printing

Simulate line
style when copying to clipboard

Simulate curve
style when printing

Simulate curve
style when copying to clipboard

These options adapt EUKLID DynaGeo to the
capabilities of your printer. Many older printers cannot produce dashed or
dotted lines. To prevent these attributes from being lost when printing, the
line styles can be simulated by EUKLID DynaGeo internally.

EUKLID DynaGeo drawings exported to the clipboard usually cannot be edited any
more without losing accuracy or partly destroying them. So it is important to
export the drawings ready for printing. This is why the respective options for
the export to the clipboard are provided, too.






#+Help Menu



Here you get help
for EUKLID DynaGeo whilst the program is running. This menu also offers
additional information concerning the license conditions as well as program
registration possibilities.



    Contents:

Displays the list of contents for the EUKLIDDynaGeo
help



    Help about the actual command:

When this command is chosen, a help page for the
actual command is displayed. If there is no command active at the time (i.e. if
you are in dragging modeVerziehen!),
then the help contents is displayed. The usual short cut for this command is
implemented too: just press the F1 key!



    Help about Windows help:

Leads to the WINDOWS help system.



    Basics cm_HelpBasics:

Leads to a text which explains the basic ideas of the
EUKLID DynaGeo program.



    The EUKLID DynaGeo window cm_HelpScreen:

Explains the external appearance of the EUKLID
DynaGeo program.



    Keyboard and mouse cm_HelpKeyMouse:

Gives an overview of the possibilities to control the
EUKLID DynaGeo program.



    License conditions cm_Licence:

Displays the license conditions.



    Registration cm_Register:

This command only appears in the Shareware-version.
It opens a window in which a licensed full version can be made from a shareware
version by entering correct license data.



    About EUKLID DynaGeo:

Calls the title window in which the version number,
program license data etc. are displayed.






#$+Internal Details



This section
contains some information about the internal running of the EUKLIDDynaGeo
program.



          Start procedure cm_StartUp

          Hints about
installation in networksNetHints

          Co-ordinate system
basicsCoordSystem

          Relationships between
EUKLID DynaGeo objectsRelativities






#$K+Start procedure:



When EUKLID
DynaGeo is started, first of all the title window appeares. This shows
the program name, the version number, a copyright notice, the program symbol,
and the license data of the present version of the program. (When a fully
licensed version is used this consists of the name and address of the license
holder and the license number.) A shareware version displays only that it is a
shareware version.



At the bottom of
the title window there is an action button, that at first displays Please
wait. As long as this text is shown, clicking on the button produces no
reaction. EUKLID DynaGeo needs some time to initialise and check
if a shareware or fully licensed version is being used. In addition, a check is
made at every new start that the program file is in its original condition. If
EUKLID DynaGeo finds that the .EXE file has been altered, then the
program is stopped with an appropriate notice.



EUKLIDDynaGeo
reads the initialisation data from a file called EUKLID DynaGeo.INI  that is looked for in the current directory.
If the file is not found there, then the program looks for it in the directory
where the EXE file is to be found. If it is not found even there, then
the program is terminated with an appropriate error message. As the INI
data is essential for EUKLID DynaGeo’s operation, this file should be carefully
preserved.



Normally the
program tries to return to the same conditions as existed when it was
last ended. This concerns the options for the screen display of geometrical
objects (point size, capture area, etc.) and the menu configurationopt_menu as well as previously loaded
macros.



When this
procedure is successfully carried out, the button displays Okay, and a
click on it closes the title window.



Also see: 

          Notes
about start parametersStartParams






#$K+Command line parameters



On calling the
program, it is possible to place 2 parameters after the program name:



 
(1)      The name (or full path) of
a GEO-file that should be loaded automatically at the start of EUKLID
DynaGeo. This property allows to associate GEO files with the EUKLIDDynaGeo
program: if you double click on a GEO file (e.g. in the WINDOWS file manager or
in Explorer), EUKLID DynaGeo will start automatically, and the file will be
loaded.
If this association isn’t established yet and you double click a GEO file,
WINDOWS will ask with which of the registered programs you want to edit the
files of this type. Since EUKLID DynaGeo normally doesn’t write anything into
the WINDOWS registry, the program isn’t registered. So you have to choose
“Other...” and enter the full path to EUKLID DynaGeo.EXE. From now on, WINDOWS
will know that GEO files are to be edited by EUKLID DynaGeo.



 
(2)      A parameter in the
form   /c=x. This selects a menu
configurationopt_menu
which should be loaded automatically at the start of EUKLID DynaGeo. The x
is either 0 or the (positive) number of a configuration registered in
the EUKLID DynaGeo.INI file. With the start parameter  /c=0  the complete
command set is chosen.



The order in
which these parameters are given is unimportant, and each of them may be used
alone.






#$K+Hints about installation in networks



The following
information is aimed primarily at those who wish to install EUKLID DynaGeo on a
network.



The files EUKLID
DynaGeo.EXE and EUKLID DynaGeo.HLP must be together in any selected
directory, which hereafter will be called the EUKLID DynaGeo directory.
On calling the program, the EUKLID DynaGeo directory does not have to be the
present directory. The file EUKLID DynaGeo.INI can either be in the
present directory or in the EUKLID DynaGeo directory. These three files must be
available for every EUKLID DynaGeo user, but only read access is necessary. It
is a good idea that the user has no write access in the EUKLIDDynaGeo
directory, so that the original files are strictly protected. In some networks
it might be helpful to declare EUKLID DynaGeo.EXE and especially EUKLID
DynaGeo.HLP as shareable so that many users have parallel access.



In order that a
user may save his private options, he requires write access for the EUKLID
DynaGeo.INI file. This may mean, for example, that he possesses a copy
of  EUKLID DynaGeo.INI  in his HOME directory. This HOME
directory should be the actual directory (or working directory) when EUKLID
DynaGeo is started, and so you have to call the program by giving the full
path. If there is a file EUKLID DynaGeo.INI in the EUKLIDDynaGeo
directory, as well as in the actual directory, then the actual directory has
precedence. EUKLID DynaGeo notes the path to this file when starting, and later
accesses it as required, even when in the meantime the actual directory (or
drive) has changed.



The place where
the data files are kept (*.GEO and *.MAK) is irrelevant to EUKLID
DynaGeo. A user has access within the program to all drives and directories
known to him within the network.






#$K+Coordinate system basics



Every EUKLID
DynaGeo drawing contains a Cartesian co-ordinate system with a unit
length of 1 cm. The origin can be draggedVerziehen with the mouse. Thus the axes and co-ordinate
points are also moved, and all other dependent objects too.



The co-ordinate
system can be hidden, but remains available for use. This means that even with
no co-ordinate system displayed, a point with fixed co-ordinates can still be
produced. To keep the use relatively simple, any scaling of the co-ordinate
system has been omitted. As long as your drawing contains points with fixed
co-ordinates, it therefore makes little sense to expand or contract the
drawing, as this action only affects those objects without a direct
relationship to the co-ordinate system. Co-ordinate points stay in their old
places.



It is very likely
that the displayed co-ordinate system on the screen is not exactly to scale.
Due to the poor screen resolution, the WINDOWS screen centimeter often is as
long as 15 real millimeter. It is however not of any great importance that you
cannot &quot;scratch around&quot; with a Tri-square and compasses on the
display screen, as all measurements are accomplished via software with EUKLID
DynaGeo, and can be displayed exactly. Hard copy print-outs should
however be to scale, and can therefore be worked on with a ruler and compasses.
The WINDOWS printer centimetre is a great deal more reliable than the WINDOWS
screen centimetre.






#$K+Relationships between EUKLID DynaGeo-objects



The following
explanation is not essential for the normal use of EUKLID DynaGeo. It may
however give you a small view of the data structures used, to give you a chance
to perhaps understand the situation when the program behaviour deviates from
that expected. Also the causes for some of the limitations of the EUKLID
DynaGeo program may become clear by studying this section.



The geometrical
objects used in the EUKLID DynaGeo program have various relationships with each
other. The most important and often used one is the parent-child
relationship. If for example, on a line with the end points P1 and P2  a perpendicular bisector ms is
constructed, then the position of the bisector is uniquely defined by the
points P1 and P2. These two points are therefore called the parents
of the perpendicular bisector ms, and ms itself is the child of the two
points P1 and P2.



Obviously,
children can also produce children, so that a family-tree-like structure of
geometrical objects can be built up. In addition to this normal descent,
there is also adoption: when a point is bound (snapped) to a line, then
the point becomes a child of that line, and the line becomes a parent of the
point.



The peace of this
beautifully clear, but strictly hierarchical family tree, is severely disturbed
through introduction of line segments with a fixed length. The endpoints of
such segments should react equally to manipulation. When however one endpoint
is dragged, then the other must be dragged after it at the other end of the
segment. It becomes practically a child of the dragged endpoint, which in turn,
takes the parent role. If however you have dragged the other end of the
segment, the parent and child roles are reversed. This reciprocal relationship
of such points is called friendship within EUKLID DynaGeo. Among (real) friends
he decides who can best, under the prevailing conditions.



Thus an EUKLID
DynaGeo object can have parents, children and friends. In order that no
senseless circular relationships can develop with objects, where for
example one point could be its own grandfather (and at the same time its own grandchild!),
the process of adoption must be strictly limited. Thus a point can never be
bound to a line that was born from that point. Additionally, the line may not
even have been born from a friend of the point to be bound, while otherwise, at
least at times, a circular relationship could be formed. (Depending for
example, on which basis objectBasisobjekt
you drag).



With this
protective mechanism in place, it should be guaranteed that the family tree of
the geometrical objects never shows a circular relationship. But if it does,
this can lead to cases of harmless, (but annoying) false interpretation of
line segments with a fixed length, which apparently forget their fixed length
when being dragged. In the worst case, EUKLID DynaGeo runs in a recursive loop,
which cannot be broken, and ends with a total hang up of the program.
Unfortunately, you can never be sure if the brain of the programmer has worked
out to prevent circular relationships in all cases. If, whilst dragging in your
drawing, a point should become loose from its line segment, then it is quite
likely that you have succeeded in fooling the internal protection against
circular relationships.






#$K+Problems and limits



Like every
program, EUKLID DynaGeo has its limits. The following description should enable
you to understand the resulting limitations.



Problems with object representation on the
screenProb6

Problems with the clipboardProb5

Problems with scalingProb2

Problems with printingProb4



How to get further help with more
difficult problems cm_Problem






#+Problems with scaling



a) Scaling on
the screen:



EUKLIDDynaGeo
obtains its information about the available computer hardware from WINDOWS,
and WINDOWS cannot always know everything. When WINDOWS finds that there is a
15 inch monitor connected, run with 1024 x 768 pixels, then the result is
so-many pixels per centimetre. This is transferred to EUKLID DynaGeo, and it is
started so that a line segment of 5 cm occupies exactly 5 WINDOWS-cm on the
screen. But due to the poor resolution of the actually available screens,
usually the WINDOWS screen centimetre is about 50% longer than the real world
centimeter.





Scaling on the
printer:



If the scaling
factor is set to 1.00 (in the Printer options dialogue), then the
drawing is printed as if WINDOWS believed the scale is 1:1, i.e. every WINDOWS
centimeter will be converted to a printer centimeter. As printers are generally
more truthful than monitors, this is mostly almost correct. However, using a
scaling factor &gt; 1.00 ( &lt; 1.00 ) allows the print-out to be expanded (or
contracted).






#+Problems with printing



a) Why do some
objects not appear in the print-out ?



When a EUKLID
DynaGeo drawing is sent to a black and white printer, then the screen colours
are changed into grey scales or black and white by the printer driver.
The resultant print quality depends almost entirely on how well the driver does
its job. You should test to see which colours print out best, and then use this
knowledge when colouring the drawing.



When for example,
the co-ordinate system is missing from your print-out, even though displayed on
the screen, then it is a sign that the printer driver interprets the light grey
(standard colour) of the co-ordinate system as white. In that case use another
colour for the co-ordinate system (such as black), then it should print
correctly.





b) Why do my
dashed lines become solid when printed?



Many older
printers cannot produce dashed or dotted lines. If this is true for your
printer too, EUKLID DynaGeo can simulate these attributes when printing. If you
choose the appropriate options on the Export page of the Options dialogue cm_Options, the program produces a
series of short solid lines instead of one dashed line.






#+Problems with the clipboard



Clipping
problems:



When a drawing is
totally, or partly exported into the clipboard, and then imported to another
program (e.g. WINWORD), then it is possible that the print-out has the straight
lines just outside the picture area running straight through the
neighbouring text, although the screen and perhaps even the printer preview
is okay.



Such an error is
apparently due to the printer driver which does not carry out correct
clipping when interpreting vector graphic data. In most cases this problem can
be overcome by putting an additional frame around the drawing in the receiving
program. In WINWORD for example, it is sufficient just to surround the imported
drawing with a positioning frame. This also eases changes in the
document’s layout. (Some people are however somewhat allergic to WINWORD
positioning frames!)





b) Size and
aspect problems:



Some older text
programs do not import drawings in correct size from the clipboard. Even worse,
sometimes the imported drawing even shows wrong aspect ratio. Though it is
nearly always possible to easily resize the drawing after importing it, you
unfortunately have to guess the correct aspect.



This ugly
behaviour of some text systems is due to the fact that they don’t know the new EMF
graphics format, but only the older WMF format. This is even true for
WINWORD up to version 7! WORD 97 (i.e. WINWORD 8) is the first version
supporting the EMF format and so preserving size and aspect of vector graphics
imported from the clipboard.





c) Why can’t I
work on my drawing after importing it?



If you try to
work on an imported EUKLID DynaGeo drawing, you often will get unsatisfying
results. This is due to the fact that many vector graphic editors don’t know
all of the objects and commands used by EUKLID DynaGeo in WMF/EMF data streams.
So it’s better not to edit imported EUKLID DynaGeo drawings any more.






#+Problems with object representation on the screen:



Why do parts
of lines sometimes remain on the screen?



This is
apparently a WINDOWS problem. It seems that WINDOWS, in rare cases of internal
confusion (stress due to overloading?), breaks off a graphics output, before it
has correctly ended. EUKLID DynaGeo relies however on that every
graphics output is exactly carried out, right down to the pixel. If this does
not occur, then unsightly traces are left on the screen.



If you notice
such traces on your drawing, then you must make EUKLID DynaGeo draw a totally
new output. In many WINDOWS graphics programs, there is a menu point redraw.
EUKLID DynaGeo does not have such a menu item, however the same effect is
obtained with a press of  the U-key
(screen Update).





b) Why do some
straight lines not show?



On some few
computer systems, EUKLID DynaGeo correctly draws line segments, but no (long)
lines. This is due to a faulty graphics driver which fails to clip lines
correctly. To avoid this problem, EUKLID DynaGeo can do the clipping internally
(see Options | Internalsopt_intern
).






#$K+License conditions and limitation of liability



EUKLID DynaGeo is
shareware. It is distributed in a compressed archive file via the
Internet. The shareware version may (and should) be copied and re-distributed
on condition that all files contained in the original archive are
included. You may use the program for 8 weeks to test its suitability. If after
this time you want to continue using EUKLID DynaGeo, you must buy a license. The
use of the shareware version in schools and similar educational establishments
is strictly prohibited.



Registered
users receive their
personal license data to convert the shareware to a licensed version.
Moreover, they get updates to a higher main version number at a discount, if
not even free. Additionally, registered users can receive latest updates
within the main version number (e.g. 2.x) 
free. See also: How do I get an update?Update).





A single user
license costs US $  30,--

and allows the use of the program within the usual conditions (on one
computer at a time, similar to the use of a book).



An extended
school license costs US $  150,--


and allows not only the use of the program on all computers and networks
within the school, but also on the private computers of all teachers and
students of that school.



These prices are
only valid outside the European community. If you live inside the EC,
please have a look at my homepage (address see below!) to get the actual
prices.





To avoid
difficulties with payment, I shall give EUKLID DynaGeo to a professional shareware
distribution service. Thus you can choose between different paying modes.
Especially, you can buy a license online with your credit card.
In January 2000, the details still need to be fixed. But I hope to get along
with this during the next few weeks. If you are interested in an EUKLIDDynaGeo
license, please have a look at the “English pages” of my Internet homepage:



http://www.mechling.de





As the English
version of EUKLID DynaGeo is exclusively distributed via the Internet, I
presume that everyone buying a license will download the program from the
Internet. I do not send any disks around. If there are any problems, please
send me an E-Mail:



roland@mechling.de





I have prepared
the program with the greatest possible care. However, I cannot guarantee
freedom from error. I also cannot take any legal responsibility or liability of
any kind for damage caused by use of this program, even if caused by a program
error, or errors in the documentation. I also undertake no guarantee that the
program functions will meet the expectations of the user, or that the program
runs without error.



But as I have an
interest that you are satisfied with EUKLID DynaGeo, I would thank you for any
information concerning possible errors, or suggestions about possible improvements.
Just send me an e-mail!





Acknowledgments:



I wish to thank
my wife who in the difficult time of program development supported her computer
addicted husband with patience and constructive help. My thanks also go to my
colleagues who taught me the techniques of programming, like Bernd Ebbmeier,
Dr. Klaus Heidler and Dr. Konrad Dammeier. I also want to thank all those who
helped me with the English version, especially Joergen Christiansen, Leo
Poulsen, R. Philpott and W. Hellwig, who were busy with translating, and last
not least H.J.Elschenbroich, who pulled the strings and made up the
connections.






$K+#How do I get an update ?



If you require an
update, it is enough that you obtain a new shareware version and install it
over your old licensed version. It is a really good idea to backup your EUKLID
DynaGeo directory before updating! Special care should be taken to the file
named EUKLID DynaGeo.INI, because it contains your license data!



You can always
download a &quot;new&quot; shareware version from my Internet homepage.

The address is:

http://www.mechling.de



Please follow the
link to the English pages !






#$K+Registration



Normally, I don’t
deliver any disk containing the EUKLID DynaGeo program, but only a bill and the
data of your personal license. While installing a shareware version you
get the opportunity to enter this license data, from which a full
licensed version is produced on your hard disk.



The Registration
window of the shareware version allows you to make a full licensed version from
an already installed shareware version. Type your valid license data into the
input fields of the dialogue window, as presented on your bill. Click on the Okay
button, and now the shareware notices, as well as any operational limitations
will be turned off. In a licensed version the item Registration
disappears from the Help menu, as it is no longer required.!



Note !

Distribution of the installed full version or of the
license data outside the validation area of the appropriate license is
forbidden.

The shareware version may be copied and
distributed freely, as long as all files are copied and distributed.




#$K+ How do I get help with problems ?



If your version
of EUKLID DynaGeo behaves strangely or has any kind of errors, then try the
on-line help. I should especially point to the section Requirements cm_Required as well as section Limits
and problemsProblems. In the
last named section are explanations concerning unexpected behaviour of the
program.



When you cannot
find anything helpful in the on-line help, then look at the EUKLIDDynaGeo
homepage:

http://www.mechling.de

to see if there
can be found anything about your problem. If not, send me a problem
description, preferably via e-mail ( roland@mechling.de ), perhaps with
an attached GEO or MAK file showing the problem (if several then please ZIP
them!).



You can also send
me a letter:

Roland Mechling,
Fuchshaldeweg 24a, D-77654 Offenburg, Germany

or a Fax
(+49(0)781 - 43268), but I think the easiest way to exchange information is
e-mail.



The more accurate
your bug description, the greater the chances I can help you! Always include a
description of your hardware (processor speed, graphic card, memory) and
software (operation system version, network software)! In any case I shall try
to help you as fast as possible.






#

Dragging with the mouse:



Place the mouse cursor over the object to be dragged.
Press the left mouse button, and hold it pressed, while pushing the mouse. The
object follows the movement of the mouse cursor until the left mouse button is
released.






#

Basis objects:



An object whose data is not related to any other
object is called a basis object. If, for example, you produce a point using a
mouse click, then it is a basis point. It obtains its co-ordinates from the
mouse. When however, a point is defined as the intersection point of two lines,
then it is not a basis point. Its co-ordinates are dependent on the location of
the two lines.



Basis objects may be draggedVerziehen at any time. EUKLIDDynaGeo
acknowledges the following basis objects:



Basis points are points whose positions are independent of all
other objects, and have thus been set using the mouse.



Basis lines are lines whose direction is set at their creation
and cannot later be changed. Such lines can be pushed or dragged, but not
rotated.



Basis circles are circles whose radius is set at their creation
and cannot be changed later. Their centre point is not useable as an object (as
otherwise the circle would be dependent on this point) and is thus never
displayed.






#

Selection frames:



Click with the left mouse button on a spot of the
present drawing, that contains no object, and then holding the button
pressed, drag the mouse. There appears a dotted selection frame.



Such a frame is actually intended for export into the
clipboard, as well as saving a part of a EUKLID DynaGeo drawing in BMP or
WMF/EMF format to a file. Then, instead of the entire drawing, only this
section is copied or saved.



To remove the frame again, click with the left mouse
button on another free spot of the drawing or press the ESC key.






#

Formulas or expressions:



When typing in formula or expressions, then all
customary mathematical operations (+, - , * , /, ^), some elementary functions
(e.g. sqrt, sin, cos, tan, exp, and the inverse functions) as well as brackets
may be used. Additionally, the actually displayed length or angle measurements
may be used as variables within the expression. Just click on the value
given in the drawing, and the appropriate variable will be inserted in the
expression being worked on.






#

Menu configuration:



A menu configuration is a particular choice of active
commands from the whole of the EUKLID DynaGeo command set. You can reduce the
command possibilities by de-activating some commands.



De-activated menu commands are displayed in grey
(instead of black) and cannot be selected. If an icon from a toolbar belongs to
the de-activated command, then this icon is also removed.






#

Repeating commands automatically:



When you hold down the Shift key while
clicking on a tool bar icon, the appropriate command will be activated in Auto
repeat mode: if the command is suited for this, it will be called again
automatically after having finished its work successfully.



You leave the Auto repeat mode by clicking the ESC
key.








The toolbars



To simplify the access to often used commands EUKLID DynaGeo offers a toolbar. It is displayed below the main menu and shows a series of small icons. When you click an icon, the corresponding command will be executed as if it was selected from the appropriate menu.

In order to include the majority of EUKLID DynaGeo commands without occupying too much valuable screen space there are four different tool palettes:

  
the main bar
contains commands from the menus Files and Edit, as well as
commands related to locus lines and mirror objects;
  
the construction bar 
contains commands from the menus Drawing and Construction, which deal with “simple” objects;
 
the shape&amp;colour
bar cm_EditDraw includes commands for editing the drawing. No menu commands directly correspond to the individual icons;

the measure&amp;calculate bar 
includes the commands which relate to co-ordinates, distance and angle values, and calculation of expressions.

For easy access to these tool palettes, each of them is named on a small menu tab. If you click there, you activate the corresponding toolbar.


If you wish to repeat a certain command, you may activate automatic repeat: just press the shift key while clicking the icon in question.




The Main Bar



The Main bar contains the following icons:



{bmc toolb101.bmp}            New drawing cm_New
{bmc toolb102.bmp}            Save drawing cm_Load
{bmc toolb103.bmp}            Save drawing cm_Save
{bmc toolb104.bmp}            Print drawing cm_Print

{bmc toolb112.bmp}            Undo last construction step 
{bmc toolb113.bmp}            Redo last Undo cm_UndoUndo
{bmc toolb105.bmp}            Name object cm_NameObj
{bmc toolb106.bmp}            Hide / Show object cm_ToggleVis
{bmc toolb107.bmp}            Delete object cm_DelObj

{bmc toolb110.bmp}            Snap point to a line cm_BindP2L
{bmc toolb111.bmp}            Undo snap point to a line 

{bmc toolb108.bmp}            Record trace line cm_MakeLocLine
{bmc toolb114.bmp}            Mirror object cm_MirrorObj

{bmc toolb115.bmp}            Calls the Help contents.


The Construction bar



The Construction bar contains the following icons:



{bmc toolb201.bmp}            Create a Point
{bmc toolb202.bmp}            Create a Point with coordinates (x|y) 
{bmc toolb203.bmp}            Create a Point on a line cm_PonLine.
{bmc toolb204.bmp}            Construct an Intersection between two lines 
{bmc toolb206.bmp}            Create a Midpoint on a line segment cm_Mitte.
{bmc toolb205.bmp}            Create a Mirror point cm_MirrorPt .

{bmc toolb207.bmp}            Create a Line segment between two points 
{bmc toolb208.bmp}            Create a Line segment of a fixed length 
{bmc toolb221.bmp}            Create a Ray cm_Strahl.

{bmc toolb211.bmp}            Create a Line through two points cm_GCreate.
{bmc toolb212.bmp}            Drop a Perpendicular cm_Lot.
{bmc toolb213.bmp}            Draw a Parallel cm_Parall line.
{bmc toolb214.bmp}            Draw a Perpendicular bisector cm_MSenkr.
{bmc toolb215.bmp}            Draw a Bisector cm_WHalb.
{bmc toolb216.bmp}            Draw a Line in a given angle  cm_GRicht.

{bmc toolb218.bmp}            Create a Circle from centre and point on periphery
{bmc toolb219.bmp}            Create a Circle of a given radius
{bmc toolb222.bmp}            Create an Arc cm_Arc.

{bmc toolb501.bmp}            Create a Triangle cm_DCreate.
{bmc toolb502.bmp}            Create a Polygon cm_NCreate.

{bmc toolb220.bmp}            Calls the Construction help.




The Shape &amp; Colour bar



If you click on an object in Edit mode the object will adopt the graphic parameters from the current options in the Shape and Colour bar.

The icons of the Shape &amp; Colour bar always show the actual values of the graphical
attributes that you assign to an object by clicking on it. If you want to
change one of these values, just click on the appropriate icon. A menue or a
window appears where you can choose the new current value for this attribute.





With the first button you can adjust the type of a line. The possible values are:

{bmc toolb301.bmp}



The second button selects the shape of a point. The available shapes are:

{bmc toolb302.bmp}



The third button chooses a polygon fill pattern from this list:

{bmc toolb303.bmp}



The fourth button is to select a colour for the objects. If you click on this
button, the standard WINDOWS colour dialogue will appear. When you close this
dialogue, the colour button will show the colour you chose, e.g. red:

{bmc toolb304.bmp}





The fifth button
{bmc toolb115.bmp} activates the Shape &amp; Colour help.



If you press the Shift
key while moving the mouse cursor across your drawing, the cursor will
change to a pipette. This tool serves to transfer the graphical
attributes of an object into the Shape &amp; Colour bar and make them the current
ones.





See also:

            Automatic selectAutoChoose






#+K$The Measure&amp;Calculate bar



The
Measure&amp;Calculate bar contains the following icons:



{bmc toolb401.bmp}            Change Co-ordinate system cm_CoordSys



{bmc toolb402.bmp}            Fix a point cm_FixPt

{bmc toolb403.bmp}            Snap point to nearest grid point cm_Clip2Grid

{bmc toolb404.bmp}            Undo Fix of a point cm_UnfixPt



{bmc toolb405.bmp}            Measure distance cm_MeasureDist

{bmc toolb406.bmp}            Measure angle cm_MeasureAngle

{bmc toolb407.bmp}            Type expression cm_TermInput



{bmc toolb408.bmp}            Activates the Measure&amp;Calculate help.






#+Automatic select



When you are in
Edit mode and click on the screen where there are several objects, EUKLID
DynaGeo must find out which object you mean. Therefore, the different
object types are sorted in an order of decreasing priority:



        Point / Line segment / Line /
Circle / Name / Measurement object / Polygon.



If, when applying
this priority list, EUKLID DynaGeo is able to distinguish without doubt
which object you mean, then this object will be edited. If however, the cursor
is in a position where two different line segments - but no point - might be in
question, EUKLID DynaGeo will open a selection box asking you to
specify.



When creating and
deleting objects, this automatic selection is disabled, so that EUKLID DynaGeo does not create or delete the wrong object by mistake.


