
Internal Details



This section
contains some information about the internal running of the EUKLIDDynaGeo
program.



          Start procedure cm_StartUp

          Hints about
installation in networksNetHints

          Co-ordinate system
basicsCoordSystem

          Relationships between
EUKLID DynaGeo objectsRelativities






#$K+Start procedure:



When EUKLID
DynaGeo is started, first of all the title window appeares. This shows
the program name, the version number, a copyright notice, the program symbol,
and the license data of the present version of the program. (When a fully
licensed version is used this consists of the name and address of the license
holder and the license number.) A shareware version displays only that it is a
shareware version.



At the bottom of
the title window there is an action button, that at first displays Please
wait. As long as this text is shown, clicking on the button produces no
reaction. EUKLID DynaGeo needs some time to initialise and check
if a shareware or fully licensed version is being used. In addition, a check is
made at every new start that the program file is in its original condition. If
EUKLID DynaGeo finds that the .EXE file has been altered, then the
program is stopped with an appropriate notice.



EUKLIDDynaGeo
reads the initialisation data from a file called EUKLID DynaGeo.INI  that is looked for in the current directory.
If the file is not found there, then the program looks for it in the directory
where the EXE file is to be found. If it is not found even there, then
the program is terminated with an appropriate error message. As the INI
data is essential for EUKLID DynaGeo’s operation, this file should be carefully
preserved.



Normally the
program tries to return to the same conditions as existed when it was
last ended. This concerns the options for the screen display of geometrical
objects (point size, capture area, etc.) and the menu configurationopt_menu as well as previously loaded
macros.



When this
procedure is successfully carried out, the button displays Okay, and a
click on it closes the title window.



Also see: 

          Notes
about start parametersStartParams






#$K+Command line parameters



On calling the
program, it is possible to place 2 parameters after the program name:



 
(1)      The name (or full path) of
a GEO-file that should be loaded automatically at the start of EUKLID
DynaGeo. This property allows to associate GEO files with the EUKLIDDynaGeo
program: if you double click on a GEO file (e.g. in the WINDOWS file manager or
in Explorer), EUKLID DynaGeo will start automatically, and the file will be
loaded.
If this association isn’t established yet and you double click a GEO file,
WINDOWS will ask with which of the registered programs you want to edit the
files of this type. Since EUKLID DynaGeo normally doesn’t write anything into
the WINDOWS registry, the program isn’t registered. So you have to choose
“Other...” and enter the full path to EUKLID DynaGeo.EXE. From now on, WINDOWS
will know that GEO files are to be edited by EUKLID DynaGeo.



 
(2)      A parameter in the
form   /c=x. This selects a menu
configurationopt_menu
which should be loaded automatically at the start of EUKLID DynaGeo. The x
is either 0 or the (positive) number of a configuration registered in
the EUKLID DynaGeo.INI file. With the start parameter  /c=0  the complete
command set is chosen.



The order in
which these parameters are given is unimportant, and each of them may be used
alone.






#$K+Hints about installation in networks



The following
information is aimed primarily at those who wish to install EUKLID DynaGeo on a
network.



The files EUKLID
DynaGeo.EXE and EUKLID DynaGeo.HLP must be together in any selected
directory, which hereafter will be called the EUKLID DynaGeo directory.
On calling the program, the EUKLID DynaGeo directory does not have to be the
present directory. The file EUKLID DynaGeo.INI can either be in the
present directory or in the EUKLID DynaGeo directory. These three files must be
available for every EUKLID DynaGeo user, but only read access is necessary. It
is a good idea that the user has no write access in the EUKLIDDynaGeo
directory, so that the original files are strictly protected. In some networks
it might be helpful to declare EUKLID DynaGeo.EXE and especially EUKLID
DynaGeo.HLP as shareable so that many users have parallel access.



In order that a
user may save his private options, he requires write access for the EUKLID
DynaGeo.INI file. This may mean, for example, that he possesses a copy
of  EUKLID DynaGeo.INI  in his HOME directory. This HOME
directory should be the actual directory (or working directory) when EUKLID
DynaGeo is started, and so you have to call the program by giving the full
path. If there is a file EUKLID DynaGeo.INI in the EUKLIDDynaGeo
directory, as well as in the actual directory, then the actual directory has
precedence. EUKLID DynaGeo notes the path to this file when starting, and later
accesses it as required, even when in the meantime the actual directory (or
drive) has changed.



The place where
the data files are kept (*.GEO and *.MAK) is irrelevant to EUKLID
DynaGeo. A user has access within the program to all drives and directories
known to him within the network.






#$K+Coordinate system basics



Every EUKLID
DynaGeo drawing contains a Cartesian co-ordinate system with a unit
length of 1 cm. The origin can be draggedVerziehen with the mouse. Thus the axes and co-ordinate
points are also moved, and all other dependent objects too.



The co-ordinate
system can be hidden, but remains available for use. This means that even with
no co-ordinate system displayed, a point with fixed co-ordinates can still be
produced. To keep the use relatively simple, any scaling of the co-ordinate
system has been omitted. As long as your drawing contains points with fixed
co-ordinates, it therefore makes little sense to expand or contract the
drawing, as this action only affects those objects without a direct
relationship to the co-ordinate system. Co-ordinate points stay in their old
places.



It is very likely
that the displayed co-ordinate system on the screen is not exactly to scale.
Due to the poor screen resolution, the WINDOWS screen centimeter often is as
long as 15 real millimeter. It is however not of any great importance that you
cannot &quot;scratch around&quot; with a Tri-square and compasses on the
display screen, as all measurements are accomplished via software with EUKLID
DynaGeo, and can be displayed exactly. Hard copy print-outs should
however be to scale, and can therefore be worked on with a ruler and compasses.
The WINDOWS printer centimetre is a great deal more reliable than the WINDOWS
screen centimetre.






#$K+Relationships between EUKLID DynaGeo-objects



The following
explanation is not essential for the normal use of EUKLID DynaGeo. It may
however give you a small view of the data structures used, to give you a chance
to perhaps understand the situation when the program behaviour deviates from
that expected. Also the causes for some of the limitations of the EUKLID
DynaGeo program may become clear by studying this section.



The geometrical
objects used in the EUKLID DynaGeo program have various relationships with each
other. The most important and often used one is the parent-child
relationship. If for example, on a line with the end points P1 and P2  a perpendicular bisector ms is
constructed, then the position of the bisector is uniquely defined by the
points P1 and P2. These two points are therefore called the parents
of the perpendicular bisector ms, and ms itself is the child of the two
points P1 and P2.



Obviously,
children can also produce children, so that a family-tree-like structure of
geometrical objects can be built up. In addition to this normal descent,
there is also adoption: when a point is bound (snapped) to a line, then
the point becomes a child of that line, and the line becomes a parent of the
point.



The peace of this
beautifully clear, but strictly hierarchical family tree, is severely disturbed
through introduction of line segments with a fixed length. The endpoints of
such segments should react equally to manipulation. When however one endpoint
is dragged, then the other must be dragged after it at the other end of the
segment. It becomes practically a child of the dragged endpoint, which in turn,
takes the parent role. If however you have dragged the other end of the
segment, the parent and child roles are reversed. This reciprocal relationship
of such points is called friendship within EUKLID DynaGeo. Among (real) friends
he decides who can best, under the prevailing conditions.



Thus an EUKLID
DynaGeo object can have parents, children and friends. In order that no
senseless circular relationships can develop with objects, where for
example one point could be its own grandfather (and at the same time its own grandchild!),
the process of adoption must be strictly limited. Thus a point can never be
bound to a line that was born from that point. Additionally, the line may not
even have been born from a friend of the point to be bound, while otherwise, at
least at times, a circular relationship could be formed. (Depending for
example, on which basis objectBasisobjekt
you drag).



With this
protective mechanism in place, it should be guaranteed that the family tree of
the geometrical objects never shows a circular relationship. But if it does,
this can lead to cases of harmless, (but annoying) false interpretation of
line segments with a fixed length, which apparently forget their fixed length
when being dragged. In the worst case, EUKLID DynaGeo runs in a recursive loop,
which cannot be broken, and ends with a total hang up of the program.
Unfortunately, you can never be sure if the brain of the programmer has worked
out to prevent circular relationships in all cases. If, whilst dragging in your
drawing, a point should become loose from its line segment, then it is quite
likely that you have succeeded in fooling the internal protection against
circular relationships.






#$K+Problems and limits



Like every
program, EUKLID DynaGeo has its limits. The following description should enable
you to understand the resulting limitations.



Problems with object representation on the
screenProb6

Problems with the clipboardProb5

Problems with scalingProb2

Problems with printingProb4



How to get further help with more
difficult problems cm_Problem






#+Problems with scaling



a) Scaling on
the screen:



EUKLIDDynaGeo
obtains its information about the available computer hardware from WINDOWS,
and WINDOWS cannot always know everything. When WINDOWS finds that there is a
15 inch monitor connected, run with 1024 x 768 pixels, then the result is
so-many pixels per centimetre. This is transferred to EUKLID DynaGeo, and it is
started so that a line segment of 5 cm occupies exactly 5 WINDOWS-cm on the
screen. But due to the poor resolution of the actually available screens,
usually the WINDOWS screen centimetre is about 50% longer than the real world
centimeter.





Scaling on the
printer:



If the scaling
factor is set to 1.00 (in the Printer options dialogue), then the
drawing is printed as if WINDOWS believed the scale is 1:1, i.e. every WINDOWS
centimeter will be converted to a printer centimeter. As printers are generally
more truthful than monitors, this is mostly almost correct. However, using a
scaling factor &gt; 1.00 ( &lt; 1.00 ) allows the print-out to be expanded (or
contracted).






#+Problems with printing



a) Why do some
objects not appear in the print-out ?



When a EUKLID
DynaGeo drawing is sent to a black and white printer, then the screen colours
are changed into grey scales or black and white by the printer driver.
The resultant print quality depends almost entirely on how well the driver does
its job. You should test to see which colours print out best, and then use this
knowledge when colouring the drawing.



When for example,
the co-ordinate system is missing from your print-out, even though displayed on
the screen, then it is a sign that the printer driver interprets the light grey
(standard colour) of the co-ordinate system as white. In that case use another
colour for the co-ordinate system (such as black), then it should print
correctly.





b) Why do my
dashed lines become solid when printed?



Many older
printers cannot produce dashed or dotted lines. If this is true for your
printer too, EUKLID DynaGeo can simulate these attributes when printing. If you
choose the appropriate options on the Export page of the Options dialogue cm_Options, the program produces a
series of short solid lines instead of one dashed line.






#+Problems with the clipboard



Clipping
problems:



When a drawing is
totally, or partly exported into the clipboard, and then imported to another
program (e.g. WINWORD), then it is possible that the print-out has the straight
lines just outside the picture area running straight through the
neighbouring text, although the screen and perhaps even the printer preview
is okay.



Such an error is
apparently due to the printer driver which does not carry out correct
clipping when interpreting vector graphic data. In most cases this problem can
be overcome by putting an additional frame around the drawing in the receiving
program. In WINWORD for example, it is sufficient just to surround the imported
drawing with a positioning frame. This also eases changes in the
document’s layout. (Some people are however somewhat allergic to WINWORD
positioning frames!)





b) Size and
aspect problems:



Some older text
programs do not import drawings in correct size from the clipboard. Even worse,
sometimes the imported drawing even shows wrong aspect ratio. Though it is
nearly always possible to easily resize the drawing after importing it, you
unfortunately have to guess the correct aspect.



This ugly
behaviour of some text systems is due to the fact that they don’t know the new EMF
graphics format, but only the older WMF format. This is even true for
WINWORD up to version 7! WORD 97 (i.e. WINWORD 8) is the first version
supporting the EMF format and so preserving size and aspect of vector graphics
imported from the clipboard.





c) Why can’t I
work on my drawing after importing it?



If you try to
work on an imported EUKLID DynaGeo drawing, you often will get unsatisfying
results. This is due to the fact that many vector graphic editors don’t know
all of the objects and commands used by EUKLID DynaGeo in WMF/EMF data streams.
So it’s better not to edit imported EUKLID DynaGeo drawings any more.






#+Problems with object representation on the screen:



Why do parts
of lines sometimes remain on the screen?



This is
apparently a WINDOWS problem. It seems that WINDOWS, in rare cases of internal
confusion (stress due to overloading?), breaks off a graphics output, before it
has correctly ended. EUKLID DynaGeo relies however on that every
graphics output is exactly carried out, right down to the pixel. If this does
not occur, then unsightly traces are left on the screen.



If you notice
such traces on your drawing, then you must make EUKLID DynaGeo draw a totally
new output. In many WINDOWS graphics programs, there is a menu point redraw.
EUKLID DynaGeo does not have such a menu item, however the same effect is
obtained with a press of  the U-key
(screen Update).





b) Why do some
straight lines not show?



On some few
computer systems, EUKLID DynaGeo correctly draws line segments, but no (long)
lines. This is due to a faulty graphics driver which fails to clip lines
correctly. To avoid this problem, EUKLID DynaGeo can do the clipping internally
(see Options | Internalsopt_intern
).







Acknowledgments:



I wish to thank
my wife who in the difficult time of program development supported her computer
addicted husband with patience and constructive help. My thanks also go to my
colleagues who taught me the techniques of programming, like Bernd Ebbmeier,
Dr. Klaus Heidler and Dr. Konrad Dammeier. I also want to thank all those who
helped me with the English version, especially Joergen Christiansen, Leo
Poulsen, R. Philpott and W. Hellwig, who were busy with translating, and last
not least H.J.Elschenbroich, who pulled the strings and made up the
connections.








#$K+ How do I get help with problems ?



If your version
of EUKLID DynaGeo behaves strangely or has any kind of errors, then try the
on-line help. I should especially point to the section Requirements cm_Required as well as section Limits
and problemsProblems. In the
last named section are explanations concerning unexpected behaviour of the
program.



When you cannot
find anything helpful in the on-line help, then look at the EUKLIDDynaGeo
homepage:

http://www.mechling.de

to see if there
can be found anything about your problem. If not, send me a problem
description, preferably via e-mail ( roland@mechling.de ), perhaps with
an attached GEO or MAK file showing the problem (if several then please ZIP
them!).



You can also send
me a letter:

Roland Mechling,
Fuchshaldeweg 24a, D-77654 Offenburg, Germany

or a Fax
(+49(0)781 - 43268), but I think the easiest way to exchange information is
e-mail.



The more accurate
your bug description, the greater the chances I can help you! Always include a
description of your hardware (processor speed, graphic card, memory) and
software (operation system version, network software)! In any case I shall try
to help you as fast as possible.






#

Dragging with the mouse:



Place the mouse cursor over the object to be dragged.
Press the left mouse button, and hold it pressed, while pushing the mouse. The
object follows the movement of the mouse cursor until the left mouse button is
released.






#

Basis objects:



An object whose data is not related to any other
object is called a basis object. If, for example, you produce a point using a
mouse click, then it is a basis point. It obtains its co-ordinates from the
mouse. When however, a point is defined as the intersection point of two lines,
then it is not a basis point. Its co-ordinates are dependent on the location of
the two lines.



Basis objects may be draggedVerziehen at any time. EUKLIDDynaGeo
acknowledges the following basis objects:



Basis points are points whose positions are independent of all
other objects, and have thus been set using the mouse.



Basis lines are lines whose direction is set at their creation
and cannot later be changed. Such lines can be pushed or dragged, but not
rotated.



Basis circles are circles whose radius is set at their creation
and cannot be changed later. Their centre point is not useable as an object (as
otherwise the circle would be dependent on this point) and is thus never
displayed.






#

Selection frames:



Click with the left mouse button on a spot of the
present drawing, that contains no object, and then holding the button
pressed, drag the mouse. There appears a dotted selection frame.



Such a frame is actually intended for export into the
clipboard, as well as saving a part of a EUKLID DynaGeo drawing in BMP or
WMF/EMF format to a file. Then, instead of the entire drawing, only this
section is copied or saved.



To remove the frame again, click with the left mouse
button on another free spot of the drawing or press the ESC key.






#

Formulas or expressions:



When typing in formula or expressions, then all
customary mathematical operations (+, - , * , /, ^), some elementary functions
(e.g. sqrt, sin, cos, tan, exp, and the inverse functions) as well as brackets
may be used. Additionally, the actually displayed length or angle measurements
may be used as variables within the expression. Just click on the value
given in the drawing, and the appropriate variable will be inserted in the
expression being worked on.






#

Menu configuration:



A menu configuration is a particular choice of active
commands from the whole of the EUKLID DynaGeo command set. You can reduce the
command possibilities by de-activating some commands.



De-activated menu commands are displayed in grey
(instead of black) and cannot be selected. If an icon from a toolbar belongs to
the de-activated command, then this icon is also removed.






#

Repeating commands automatically:



When you hold down the Shift key while
clicking on a tool bar icon, the appropriate command will be activated in Auto
repeat mode: if the command is suited for this, it will be called again
automatically after having finished its work successfully.



You leave the Auto repeat mode by clicking the ESC
key.












#+Automatic select



When you are in
Edit mode and click on the screen where there are several objects, EUKLID
DynaGeo must find out which object you mean. Therefore, the different
object types are sorted in an order of decreasing priority:



        Point / Line segment / Line /
Circle / Name / Measurement object / Polygon.



If, when applying
this priority list, EUKLID DynaGeo is able to distinguish without doubt
which object you mean, then this object will be edited. If however, the cursor
is in a position where two different line segments - but no point - might be in
question, EUKLID DynaGeo will open a selection box asking you to
specify.



When creating and
deleting objects, this automatic selection is disabled, so that EUKLID DynaGeo does not create or delete the wrong object by mistake.


